[KEIICHI]
Hmm? Ms. Chie.
Huh?
Did anybody find the mayor?
[CHIE]
No.
No updates since we
found out he was missing.
I'm sure he's going to be fine.
Now, let's hurry back to class.
Okay.
[CHIE] All right everybody,
time for class!
That's odd. Where's Ms. Furude?
She would never be this tardy.
Has anybody seen
her since lunch, kids?
[SATOKO]
Keiichi.
I believe that you and Rika were
talking at lunch, weren't you?
[KEIICHI]
Uh.
Uh, yeah.
We talked a little before
you showed up, but then,
she was gone.
Actually, I think I saw her
behind the school with someone.
And this was somebody
other than Keiichi?
I couldn't see the guy
she was talking to.
[KEIICHI]
Who was it?
Uh! It was a man dressed
like a construction worker.
[SATOKO]
That seems strange.
Why would a construction
worker be here?
This is bad.
[GIRL B]
Now Rika's missing, too?
[SATOKO]
Rika!
Rika! Where are you?
Can you hear me?
Hey, come out, Ms. Furude!
Where are you?
[MION]
Rika!
Rika! Shout if you can hear us!
‐‐The heck?
‐‐[MION] Over here, Kei!
What'd you find?
[MION] I think there's
something on the roof!
Rika?
She's not up here. No luck.
I don't see anything.
[MION] Sorry, my eyes
are playing tricks on me.
It's weird.
She was acting really
strange during lunch too.
What could've happened to her?
[MION]
I have to put an end to this.
[KEIICHI]
Hm?
What's that?
Whatever you said just now,
I missed it, Mion.
[MION] I said,
I have to put an end to this.
Whoa, Mion.
Are you okay?
You look really mad.
Rika Furude.
She's head of one of the
village's Three Great Families.
She's carrying out the curse.
[MION] It's her.
She's behind all of it!
[MION]
That's right. It must be.
She did it. Everything!
She's trying to kill people!
Covering it up
with family histories
and Lord Oyashiro's legend.
I won't let her!
I can stop her.
I can put an end to this curse.
I know that girl is
trying to kill people!
I know it was her!
I know it!
I know it, I know it!
I know it, I know it, I know it!
I know it, I know it.
C‐Calm down, Mion!
What are you talking about?
[MION]
I know it!
I know it, I know it, I know it!
I know it, I know it!
I know it, I know,
I know, I know...
Please Mion!
I know it, I know it, I know it,
I know it, I know it,
I know it, I know it...
[CHIE]
Hey, you two!
Is there something wrong?
Nothing, ma'am, but Rika
doesn't seem to be here.
[CHIE] We're cancelling class
for the day.
Let the staff worry about
finding Ms. Furude, all right?
You two should head home.
Okay, we will.
[RENA]
Hmm?
What's up, Keiichi?
What's wrong?
It's my fault.
All of it.
[RENA]
Why would you say that?
What makes you
think it's your fault?
Can you talk about it?
Well...
Sorry. Not right now.
Dammit all.
If I'd known things were
gonna get this serious,
I would never have gone into
that stupid storehouse
at the festival!
We've insulted Oyashiro.
But that was all Shion's idea!
It's her fault, so why
should I be punished for it?
No. That's wrong.
We both did what we did.
It doesn't matter
whose fault it was now.
[phone rings]
Who is it?
[MION]
Hi, Kei.
Uh. Shion, I‐‐
Uh. No. Wait.
Is this Mion?
[MION] I want you
to come over here right now.
Uh. Over where?
To the Sonozaki estate?
[MION]
In front of the waterwheel.
[phone clicks]
[KEIICHI]
What's going on?
I'd been thinking there
might be something
you wanted to tell me.
Huh?
I know you're nervous right now.
Trust me, I get it.
Don't worry.
Huh?
Come on. We'll talk at my place.
Okay then.
The whole forest, or really,
the whole mountain.
It's like your backyard, right?
[MION] Well,
it's all our family's land.
"Backyard" is a stretch.
It's not like we have
gardeners taking care of it.
It must be cool living in an
old‐fashioned house like this.
What, are you serious?
The wind blows straight
through the place.
Oh.
And it doesn't do a
damn thing against the cold.
Although, getting snow off
your roof's gonna suck.
Uh. Does it snow
a lot around here?
[MION]
You didn't know?
Hinamizawa's in the
middle of snow country!
Oh... Are you serious?
Aw, crap, I hate cold weather!
Well, we'd best get
to work on toughening up
that city‐slicker hide
if you're gonna make it
through your first
Hinamizawa winter!
Screw that!
I'll just sit by the stove!
This'll be a fun winter!
[laughs]
You are such an ass.
[MION]
Yeah, well.
I'll go put on
some tea for us, okay?
[cicada cries]
You feel it, right?
Huh?
[MION] That creeping sense
there's somebody out to get you.
If I did, what would it mean?
Sorry, I promise I wasn't trying
to scare you with that question.
Mion. Listen.
I need to apologize
to you for something.
To me? For what?
[exhales]
Last night, at the shrine,
during the festival.
I snuck into the old storehouse.
I knew it was
the wrong thing to do.
I was just too curious!
I'm sorry!
I already knew that.
You and Shion broke into
the Furude Shrine tool
storehouse last night.
And I knew that Tomitake and
Takano were there with you too.
Honestly, people
found out pretty quick.
And even if you're the new kid,
and you were tagging
along out of simple curiosity.
You should realize that
a lot of folks in the village
aren't gonna be willing to let
you off the hook for this.
It's a serious thing.
I know it might be too late to
ask this, but please forgive me!
[MION]
Look at me.
I'm with you.
I wanna help you
get through all this,
so I need you to trust me.
You don't realize
how badly I want to.
I just...
After what Rika said.
After everything
that's happened.
I feel like I never really knew
anything about any of you!
It's okay.
You already confessed
to what you did.
You knew it was wrong,
and you apologized.
I'm sure I can trust you, Kei.
Mion.
[MION]
So now,
I need you to trust
me too, all right?
I'm on your side
even if no one else is!
Okay?
[gasps]
[KEIICHI]
Okay. I trust you.
Thanks, Mion.
[KEIICHI]
Please. Tell me.
The deaths during Watanagashi.
Why do they keep happening?
Why did all those
people have to die?
Of course you would
want to know that.
At first, it was just a
few coincidental deaths.
But after that,
it became something else.
Some villagers started
using the curse
of Lord Oyashiro as an excuse.
A way to avoid having
to call it what it is.
[KEIICHI]
What do you mean?
An excuse?
[MION] They claim they're
doing Lord Oyashiro's will
by killing the village's enemies
on the night of Watanagashi.
[gasps]
No. No way.
We're in the boonies,
not the feudal era!
[MION]
Follow me.
You saw them yourself.
All those torture devices
in the storehouse.
[KEIICHI] Yeah, but hadn't they
been locked up in there forever?
Takano was really excited,
but it wasn't my thing.
[KEIICHI]
Damn, that reeks!
[MION] The tools they
keep in there were used
by the people of
Onigafuchi Village
to enforce the strict laws
of their religion.
[MION] Anybody who violated
those laws would be tortured
and executed to set an example.
That was the past!
We're not living in some
medieval murder village!
[MION] Right. In those times,
the Watanagashi ritual
was overseen by the Three
Great Families of the village.
But then, things in this
country started changing fast,
and soon the influence of the
Kimiyoshi and Furude families
began to fade.
The ritual was abandoned,
and the tools were stowed away.
So my family built this place.
Does that mean that...?
Could this be...?
[MION]
A secret chamber for performing
the original Watanagashi ritual.
[MION]
See for yourself.
[gasps]
Get it?
We're living in the year 1983,
but some things don't change.
Even if we call it Hinamizawa,
it's still the village where
the demons once lived.
There's no way.
The Sonozaki family
only built this place
after the old Watanagashi
ritual fell out of practice,
and nothing in this room has
ever been used as far as I know.
But still,
there are rumors around town
that we have a place
to keep up the old ways.
And they're all true.
There's more here?
What is this?
[MION]
We're near the end.
My uncle's safe room.
It's the most secure place
on our property.
And this door...
You could shoot it all day
and not leave a dent.
This place.
How deep does all this go?
Somebody could
practically live down here.
Which is exactly why
we keep it stocked with food.
Electrical, phone,
and plumbing, obviously.
If they have to,
someone can survive
on what we've got down here
for at least a month, easy.
So I'm sure you're
gonna be fine, Kei.
What does that mean?
What does all this
have to do with me?
[MION]
Listen,
I want you to lie low down here.
Starting right now.
Hold on.
Slow down, Mion!
What about my parents?
They're gonna wonder where I'm‐‐
What're you doing? Mion!
Let me out!
[MION]
There's no other way.
There are still people trying to
carry out Lord Oyashiro's curse.
The truth is,
the village is the soil
those poison fruits
need to keep growing.
But even if that's true, why
would you lock me in here?
[MION]
Because!
Until I've finished doing
what I need to do,
you'll be safe here!
You can't.
[MION]
It's okay.
I promise I'll
let you out of here
once I know nobody's trying
to hurt you anymore!
[KEIICHI]
Please unlock this.
I swear I won't leave.
[MION]
I'm sorry, Kei,
but that cell is the only
safe place for you to be.
If I don't manage to win this,
when they find you in there,
tell them I kidnapped you
and threw you in that cage,
and you didn't know
anything about my plans!
Mion, will you at least tell me
what you're trying
to do out there?
In Hinamizawa,
if a member of the community
is suffering and somebody
has the means to make it better,
they're always expected to
offer whatever they can to help.
The reason this village
has survived as long as it has
is that the people here
look out for each other.
[KEIICHI]
You mean like when those punks
were threatening me before.
Exactly. But something happened
that warped that spirit of
solidarity into something ugly.
Right, the dam.
Soon it stopped being about
protecting our way of life.
There were some villagers
who were just after revenge.
And their hatred.
It took Satoko's family away.
Our old customs. Our sense
of kindness and togetherness.
They've been twisted into
vengeance and cruelty.
And all of us are
to blame for it.
But all of that happened
so long ago now!
[MION]
You're exactly right.
We're not in the time
of men and demons.
It's 1983, the modern age.
And I, de facto head
of the Three Families,
heiress to the Sonozaki name,
will abolish the
custom once and for all!
It was our failings that created
the curse that's been taking
our neighbors' lives
for five straight years.
We gave birth to a monster
we didn't have the
strength to control.
It's my duty.
Do you understand?
It has to be me!
I still don't know what
you're planning to do out there,
but whatever it is.
I wanna help you, Mion!
Just tell me what I can do!
We're on the same
side here, remember?
Y'know, that one time.
At the game tournament,
when you gave me that doll.
You looked at me like
I was just a normal girl.
I was happy.
I'm doing this
'cause I love you.
Understand?
I promise to protect you!
But you won't be safe
until I've put an end to
this sick ritual permanently!
Mion.
[alarm sounds]
Is there somebody here?
[MION] Heh!
They've sent someone after me.
It's possible they've caught on.
Well, that's fun.
I should greet them.
No, wait. Please don't go.
[MION]
Excuse me, Kei.
Looks like I have
a guest to entertain.
A gun?
Mion!
What are you
planning to do with that?
That isn't a real pistol, is it?
[MION]
I might not be back for a while.
There's gonna be a lot
of work to do out there.
[KEIICHI]
Please don't go!
What about the cops?
If we're in danger,
then call them!
The cops aren't gonna
have our backs on this, Kei.
Not here in Hinamizawa.
And remember,
if something goes wrong.
If the person who finds
you down here isn't me,
you tell them I kidnapped you.
That I threw you in that cell
and walked out the door.
They should let you
off the hook then.
Mion!
Please, you don't have
to go out there!
Come back!
You can't.
[yells]
Dammit!
Mion!
[OOISHI]
Maebara! Can you hear me?
Hang on!
Mion.
[OOISHI]
Mister Maebara!
I stopped by to look
for you at the hospital,
but they said you'd
already been discharged.
Has the head wound
been healing up okay?
[KEIICHI]
All thanks to you.
You should really thank
the detective in the area
who happened
to hear that gunshot,
'cause he's the only
reason we found you.
The truth is that damn near
everything went wrong that day,
but at least we pulled one
person outta that bunker alive!
[laughs]
Just one?
Did Mion‐‐
[OOISHI]
Okay, stay calm, now.
How am I supposed to stay calm?
[OOISHI]
Mister Maebara.
That underground prison
where you'd been locked up.
Were you aware of the fact that
there was also a well in there?
A well?
I'd never been there before,
so no, I had no idea.
I hadn't seen it.
[OOISHI] The police searched it
all the way to the bottom.
And we found multiple bodies.
[OOISHI] We were
able to positively identify
Oryo Sonozaki,
Kiichiro Kimiyoshi,
and one Shion Sonozaki.
Shion?
But‐‐
[OOISHI] That's not to
mention the multiple sets
of skeletal remains
that had been decaying
for ten years or more.
At least three
different victims.
Seems that was
somewhere Hinamizawa
buries its dark secrets.
Then after that, we found Rika.
Was she okay?
I'm sorry to tell you.
By the time we got to her,
she was long dead already.
Her body was discovered
floating in the septic tank
at your school.
And based on her condition,
it wasn't an easy death.
Then was that...
‐‐The heck?
‐‐[MION] Over here, Kei!
And then she...
What about Mion?
[OOISHI]
We found her as well.
Her body turned up
alongside that of Satoko Hojo.
[OOISHI] They died in a hallway
of the Sonozaki mansion.
Basically,
we got a whole damn
pile of bodies dropped on us.
A few years' worth
of homicide cases
just cropped up in
the course of a single day.
Which means, sadly,
there's a good chance
I'll be needing to ask
you some questions,
and if I do, I sincerely
hope you can help me.
In return, I promise
I'll keep you in the loop.
If I find anything out,
I'll tell you.
We'll talk again soon.
Take care, all right?
[KEIICHI] Mion told me
that her family's safe room
was the most secure
place in the village,
but Shion's body was there.
When Rika disappeared,
I went with Mion to look for her
right near where
they found her body.
[KEIICHI]
It doesn't seem right.
It feels like Mion was
the one who killed everyone!
Did Mion lure me down there
and lock me in that cell to
protect me from some conspiracy?
Or was she...?
[RIKA] Next time:
Tataridamashi‐hen, Part 1.